>> Jon Kuperman: And so then the last kind
of area that we want to talk about for
this is the memory tab itself.
I do find starting with the task manager
or the performance to be easier cuz you
get a quick visual indicator
if you have a problem or not.
But essentially what you can do here,
you can go to the memory tab and
then you can click this button, and
this button will record a heap snapshot.
Again, this is a bit overwhelming and it
kind of shows all the different things and
you kind of have this very similar thing.
Remember, in CPU performance, we talk
about total time and self-time, right?
So total time is it and
all of its children, self-time is just it.
Memory has a very similar idea where
we have shallow and retained size.
So shallow size is how big
that item itself is, and
retain size is how much memory could be
freed if that thing were to be cleared.
And so you could think of like a small
array that references a huge array.
And the small array might have a little
shallow size, but if it's the only thing
referencing the large array,
it might have a really large retain size.
So without getting into any algorithm
stuff, how do people feel about this kind
of general idea of mark and
sweep garbage collection in JavaScript?
Should we cover this a little bit?
Seeing some iffies.
Okay, that's great, that's totally great,
there's definitely not a prerequisite or
a requirement.
But the idea being that you have all
of these different ways and different
programming languages or different
engines to manage memory that gets used.
So in low level languages, you often have
to allocate and deallocate yourself.
You say, hey, I need a seven length array.
And when you're done, you say, hey,
I don't need this seven
length array anymore.
And you have to put that in your source
code everywhere that you use it.
In a lot of these more
modern scripting languages,
they have what's called
garbage collection.
Meaning that, there's some code running in
the engine level itself that will detect
when things aren't needed anymore,
and it'll get rid of those for you.
And so ideally, if there's no bugs in your
code we are able to write applications.
We can use a big array, then we can get
done with it and since we're not using it,
it falls out of scope.
It's this kind of very magical thing.
And the way that works is with what
we call a mark and sweep algorithm,
where we're basically marking
things that are still used.
And then as soon as a pass is finished,
we know we can delete anything that didn't
just get marked because
it's not in use anymore.
So in that sense,
we don't have memory leaks in JavaScript,
because if something is no longer
referenced it will go away.
But in the sense that we can still
be accidentally pointing to things,
through any number of things like I
covered before with the even listeners or
with the closures or anything like that,
we have lots of different memory issues.
So that's a little bit about how
the memory management works and
why you might see different things
like the retained size could be a lot
bigger than the shallow size.
When we're looking through
the items themselves,
I think a few ways to make this easier
is understanding that stuff that is
wrapped in the parentheses
is like system level stuff.
And often not unhelpful, but
is just not going to be our course of
the application causing memory leak.
And so what you'll often want to do is
sort by shallow or retain size, but
sort of come down and start looking at
things like, for example, this div.
These are user land created things.
So this is like a lot of memory in a div,
whereas these native string objects
might not be the most helpful to us.
Because while they indicate memory is
really being used, A, it's a bit hard
to know how much the system uses anyway
without application code going on.
And B, it's very hard to get from these
system objects back to the JavaScript that
created them.
So yeah question.
>> Speaker 2: Say, how does the main
threads memory management affected by
web workers or
vice-versa in terms of memory leaks?
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah,
that's a great question.
So as far as CPU goes,
the workers give us infinite scalability,
or at least scaling to the number of cores
that you have where each one represents or
loosely represents a core and
you can do separate work.
With memory, you're still constrained
in the sense that like Chrome as
an application is taking up so much
memory, kicking things out into a worker.
While it may represent a little
bit different in the graphs,
is still your tab's memory allocation and
your tab will be capped to a maximum where
it'll be frozen after that amount of time.
Similarly, Chrome will be capped to
a maximum where it'll freeze the operating
system after an amount of time.
So I guess the short answer is it doesn't
buy you out of any of the stuff in
the same way that threads will
buy you out of CPU-bound issues.
So with that all being said,
what I think is the most useful workflow.
And the one that we'll be using in our
exercise to try to really understand
just the memory your application is using,
is I find it really useful to
capture heap snapshot by recording.
Once it's captured,
go into your app and do some stuff,
like let's say we just make a bunch
of divs, then capture another one.
So now we've got two heap snapshots, and
we can kinda see right away the first one
we captured is smaller
than the second one.
From here, instead of seeing the summary
like we've been looking at, we can just
compare them to each other, and
that should get rid of a lot of the noise.
So if we say, let's compare
snapshot three to snapshot two,
we should only see the difference
between those snapshots.
And I find that to be the most
useful way to kind of go through and
figure out what's really
going on in your application.
So when we do the summary, we see all this
stuff that's a bit confusing, system,
object shape, all these different things.
But when we do the comparison between
the two, we can see that truthfully,
the thing with the largest delta is
that 7,000 new divs were created.
And from here, we can start trying to get
back into our source code a little bit,
understanding where in my code
am I creating all of these divs?
Where are they coming from?
Again, with the caveats,
these represent internal state,
they don't keep this pointer
track to your source code.
So where I say,
the tool is very powerful but
it is not always going to give you
an easy click-through to like, okay,
there's a lot of divs, where are they
coming from, and open something up.
These are really just like
a memory heap snapshot,
they can identify what type of thing it
is, but you still are going to be a little
bit on your own piecing it
back to your application code.
So I can confidently say here,
I have a memory leak and
I'm leaking a bunch of HTML elements,
and those elements are divs.
I know that easily from looking at this,
but it is not quite as easy for me to just
get back to the line of JavaScript
that actually generated that, right?
I can see these things are being
attached to the body somewhere,
I can see that they're divs.
I don't get that exact kind of thing
that you would maybe hope for,
which is, this came from line 30 in main
and so it sorta gets you part of the way.
You can quickly identify,
do I have a memory leak?
You can quickly identify what type it is.
Is it JavaScript?
Is it documents?
Is it nodes?
And you can quickly compare your app
to see how much it's growing and
what it's growing by.
And then from there you sort of have
to do quite a bit more manual work,
which is why I say it's maybe the most
difficult one to use out of all these
performance analysis tools.
Trying to get it mapped that back
to your actual source code and
figuring out what might be going wrong.